Runtime Environment- A Fitness and Health Enterprise Portal

Domain of the Project: Health and Fitness

Description of the Project: As important as it is to have high-end equipment, it’s also very crucial to stay up-to-date on technology to attract new customer and keep up with the fierce competition. More so, many fitness centers are unable to retain existing members, maintain quality standards and track records which lead to a stagnant business. So, there is an urgent need to implement a technology which will help health clubs, fitness centers and gyms to manage and monitor their organization efficiently along with being accessible to customers conveniently.

Scope of the Project: Runtime Environment Inc. will create a platform that will help achieve better standards by continuous monitoring of members, equipment, scheduling, special services, accounting, marketing, reporting and more in the international level as well.
Role-based access:
a.	Guests or Members can create accounts and access the whole system depending on their requirements, for example register for group classes, check their membership, enroll for events, pick trainers based on their profiles, order equipment etc.
b.	Trainers (Master, Visiting or Regular) can upload profiles, view client’s schedule and progress and pick dates/availability for classes/sessions
c.	Super admin will manage organization details and admin will view dashboard (analytics), trainers and members, schedule, accounting, equipment and merchandise overview
d.	Maintenance Manager will maintain the equipment and can report issues
e.	Marketing Manager views the analytics and publishes promo codes
f.	Equipment Vendors login to manage inventories, receive feedback and track maintenance of the existing equipment
g.	Accountant will be mapped to every branch (gym) and can view the respective accounts
The application will handle underlying features like:
i.	Currency management across multiple countries
ii.	Transfer clients from one branch to another
iii.	Promo code created and used while registering as a new user/member
iv.	Loyalty points gained through continuous sessions will be redeemed
v.	Analytics- Graphs of revenue, popularity/rating of classes and trainer etc.
vi.	Inbox queries from client to trainer and vice versa
Conclusion: This portal would enable the customers easy & comprehensive access to their fitness accounts, view sessions, instructor profiles and activities. In the process, Runtime Environment Inc. can understand the popular sessions and their demands so that they can take their business to greater heights.
